RRR[a] is a 2022 Indian Telugu-language epic period action drama film directed by S. S. Rajamouli who wrote the film with K. V. Vijayendra Prasad. It is produced by D. V. V. Danayya of DVV Entertainments. The film stars N. T. Rama Rao Jr., Ram Charan, Ajay Devgn, Alia Bhatt, Shriya Saran, Samuthirakani, Ray Stevenson, Alison Doody, and Olivia Morris. It is a fictional story about two Indian revolutionaries, Alluri Sitarama Raju (Charan) and Komaram Bheem (Rama Rao), who fought against the British Raj and the Nizam of Hyderabad respectively.

Rajamouli came across reading stories about the lives of Rama Raju and Bheem, and connected the coincidences between them, imagining what would have happened had they been friends. Set in 1920, the plot explores the undocumented period in their lives when both the revolutionaries choose to go into oblivion before they began the fight for their country.

The film was formally announced in March 2018, with the launch and the principal photography of the film began in November 2018 in Hyderabad. The film was shot extensively across India, with a few sequences in Ukraine and Bulgaria. The film's soundtrack and background score is composed by M. M. Keeravani with cinematography by K. K. Senthil Kumar and editing by A. Sreekar Prasad. Sabu Cyril is the film's production designer whilst V. Srinivas Mohan supervised the visual effects.

Made on a budget of ₹550 crore (US$72 million), RRR was initially scheduled for theatrical release on 30 July 2020, which has been deferred multiple times due to production delays and followed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The film was released theatrically on 25 March 2022, and opened to positive reviews from the critics with praise for the performances and screenplay. With ₹240 crore worldwide on its first day, RRR broke the record for the highest opening-day collection earned by an Indian film. During the weekend of 25–27 March 2022, the film occupied the first position at global box office with a gross of ₹485 crore.
